Australia's Covid-19 response committee is due to hold an emergency meeting on Monday as outbreaks of the highly contagious Delta variant across the country prompted a lockdown in Sydney and renewed restrictions elsewhere. Around 18 million Australians, or around 70% of the population, are now under some form of lockdown or Covid-related restrictions as officials grapple with Covid-19 flare-ups in almost every state or territory. "I think we are entering a new phase of this pandemic, with the more contagious Delta strain," federal Treasurer Josh Frydenberg told the Australian Broadcasting Corp on Monday, adding Australia was facing a "critical time" in its fight against Covid-19. The national security committee, chaired by Prime Minister Scott Morrison, will be briefed by the country's chief medical officer later on Monday, Frydenberg said. Sydney, Australia's most populous city and home to a fifth of Australia's 25 million people, was plunged into a two-week lockdown over the weekend. Reuters India reported on Monday 46,148 new Covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, data from the health ministry showed. The South Asian country's total Covid-19 case load now stands at 30.27 million, while total fatalities are at 396,730, the data showed. India's coronavirus-related deaths rose by 979 overnight. Reuters Put on an extra jersey, open your window and always wear a mask. That’s the message from the GreenFlag Association, which is researching air quality in minibus taxis, to South African taxi drivers. As the rate of Covid-19 infections continues to increase, particularly in Gauteng, the public benefit organisation focused on promoting awareness of good ventilation in closed spaces, this week reiterating that poorly ventilated public transport has the potential to be a super-spreader. GreenFlag has found that public transport is the perfect environment for spreading Covid-19, especially in winter temperatures when commuters prefer to keep vehicle windows closed. The organisation is working with students at the Durban University of Technology (DUT) to research air quality in minibus taxis. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced new regulations on Sunday evening as Covid-19 cases continued to surge in SA. The president was addressing the nation on developments in the country’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic. He has placed the country on adjusted level 4. The address follows meetings of the national coronavirus command council, the president’s co-ordinating council and cabinet. The government was forced to meet on Saturday and Sunday following the shocking news of the Delta variant which is now dominant in SA.