Cape Town residents breathed a sigh of relief on Wednesday after firefighting crews confirmed the raging fires had been brought under control. Parts of the city, including Rhodes Memorial and  buildings the University of Cape Town (UCT), were destroyed by the raging fire which started  on Devil’s Peak near Groote Schuur Hospital on Sunday morning. Firefighters worked around the clock for four consecutive days to contain the fire. No fatalities were reported among the crew and community members. Here are five must-read stories: Residents in the City Bowl were on high alert on Monday morning when the fire  spread rapidly towards the Vredehoek area as a result of the southeaster wind. The city said  wind speed increased and additional firefighting crews were stationed at the Pepper Tree and Chelmsford areas. Five members of the firefighting crew  sustained burn injuries on Monday, MEC of local government, environmental affairs and development planning in the Western Cape Anton Bredell told TimesLIVE. He said the city and Table Mountain National Park had deployed 250 members, including volunteer firefighters, to contain the blaze. Frederick Mhangazo, a Tanzanian national, appeared briefly in the Cape Town regional court on Tuesday morning. The man, in his 30s, was charged with arson Mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith said on Monday the suspect was apprehended near  Devil’s Peak after being spotted by a resident who tracked him down with the help of his sons and the family’s dogs. The city of Cape Town said on Wednesday the fire was under control and that it had started downscaling resources on Tuesday evening. Monitoring operations were ongoing. After suspending academic programmes for a week, UCT started receiving students on campus on Thursday as it prepares to resume academic activities. Students who reside in Smuts Hall and Fuller Hall were moved to emergency accommodation on Monday to ensure their safety. Companies and individuals offered support to students and affected staff by donating essentials and food items. The university's Jagger Library, which housed a priceless African studies collection, was completely destroyed by the fire.