IN FULL: Speaking notes for police minister Bheki Cele during Tuesday’s justice cluster briefing Over the past two days the ministers from the justice, crime prevention and security (JCPS) cluster met to discuss reports  received from the joint operations committee (Jocom) of the  police sservice  and state security which reflect on the incidents of violence and looting  in parts of KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. The reports have also presented to the ministers  critical intelligence information from the State Security Agency (SSA) and SA Police Crime and Defence Intelligence. The intelligence information has provided timeous, critical and sometimes unique analysis  to give early warning signs of potential risks and dangers. Law enforcement officers have used this intelligence information  to respond with speed to  issues on the ground and attend to areas  identified as potential hotspots. As ministers we are satisfied with all the reports we have received and are confident our law enforcement agencies are able to do their job effectively. In all our operations, we still have the responsibility to save lives. The  situation on the ground is under strong surveillance and we will ensure  it does not deteriorate any further. We cannot allow anyone to make a mockery of our democratic state and we have instructed the law enforcement agencies to double their efforts the stop the violence and  increase deployment on the ground. As ministers of this cluster we add our voices to that of our president and the many law-abiding and peace-loving South Africans who have strongly condemned the lawlessness, violence and destruction that is  happening in certain areas in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng as reported in the media. We call for an immediate end to this violence, looting and  disregard  for the law and call for an immediate return to peace and stability. As ministers, we are encouraged and heartened by the outpouring of messages on social media platforms by South Africans from all communities and walks of life who are saying the wanton destruction of property such as shops, malls, taxis, trucks and other transport infrastructure will not be in their name. These messages of support echo the attitude of our country that this infrastructure is the lifeblood of our society and economy. Without these we cannot hope to grow our economy, ensure we all have food and fuel and can go about our daily lives toward the goal of prosperity for all. SA is a democratic state  governed by the constitution. As  President Cyril Ramaphosa stated in his address to the nation last night,  “our constitution guarantees the right of every person to protest, to organise, and to engage in free expression and free association”. However, this right of engaging in peaceful protest comes with the responsibility of not  infringing upon the rights of others who may not want to protest. No amount of unhappiness or personal circumstances  among our people gives the right to anyone to loot, vandalise, do as they please and break the law. We call on  communities to exercise restraint in dealing with the situation, and above all ensure  innocent civilians are not harmed. We further urge all communities and groups to reject any call for violence and making this country ungovernable. We call upon anyone who has reliable information to report any acts of violence and intimidation to the  police  on the toll-free line 08600-10111. We  welcome the announcement by  President  Ramaphosa on  July 12  to authorise the deployment of  SA National Defence Force personnel  to supplement the capacity of the police service in protecting  infrastructure and other operations. We also welcome the recall from leave and rest days of police members to beef up  policing work on the ground. Our latest reports indicate  757 people have been arrested. In KwaZulu-Natal  304 have been arrested and in Gauteng 453 were arrested. Of concern is the loss of lives that has accompanied  violence and destruction  of property. The total number of fatalities  reported is 10, with four in KZN and six in GP. [The minister was speaking prior to news of 10 deaths during a stampede in Soweto]. Furthermore, four police officers were injured while responding to violent protests and are recovering well. We caution South Africans to note the country is facing the Covid-19 pandemic and we are in the third wave fuelled by the Delta variant. Law enforcement agencies are also going to ensure mass adherence to the adjusted alert level 4 lockdown regulations that have been extended by another two weeks. The greatest risk  during the mass protests  in parts of the country is the rapid spread of the pandemic, causing a rapid rise in infections and affecting our ability as government and our health system to respond to this. Our health system is already under strain and current developments put the lives of more South Africans at risk should infections rise. Disaster Management Act enforcement operations will continue with heightened visibility to ensure  our communities: South Africans are reminded that washing or sanitising  hands still remains our best arsenal against the coronavirus. Our communities are also reminded that: Anyone found contravening the regulations will be processed accordingly in terms of the law. We also issue a stern warning to those circulating inflammatory messages on  social media platforms which are aimed at inciting violence and disregard of the law. The Cybersecurity Act states  any person who “unlawfully makes available, broadcasts or distributes by means of a computer system a data message to a specific person, group of persons or the general public with the intention to incite violence, or call people to be involved in the destruction of any property belonging to people, is guilty of an offence”. Those who engage in such acts will be liable for criminal offence and can receive a fine or be sentenced to imprisonment for a period not exceeding three years. As the cluster we are monitoring all social media platforms and we are tracking those who are sharing false information and calling for civil disobedience. We are engaging the different platforms to track and trace the origins of inflammatory posts and messages inciting violence and have requested  these be taken down with immediate effect. While the intervention of some communities to actively stop the mass lootings has been commended, we encourage communities not to take the law into their own hands and continue to work with the police. The involvement of other stakeholders is also critical in the fight against lawlessness and in this regard we have already engaged the leadership of private security companies in an effort to increase better working relations with the police. As ministers in the cluster we have the responsibility to assert the authority of the state and to safeguard our territorial integrity and sovereignty of the republic. In conclusion, we reiterate the words of President Ramaphosa last night when he said: “We are building up, not shutting down. We will not be deterred, as South Africans, from the task ahead.” If these acts of violence continue unabated, we run the risk of running out of basic food stuffs and that would be disastrous for the country. We remind all South Africans to mask up, wash up and keep your distance as we sustain our fight against this pandemic. Finally, register and vaccinate to save SA. TimesLIVE