Covid-19 infections are on the rise in Nelson Mandela Bay. Mayor Nqaba Bhanga has  called on residents to take extra precautions following an increase in active cases and hospital admissions. After the Covid-19 Joint Operating Centre  meeting on Tuesday, Bhanga said the increase in positive cases was cause for concern, as the numbers had jumped to more than  100  in the last two weeks. The metro recorded 154 active cases on Monday and has  the highest number of cases in the Eastern Cape. Summerstrand, Gelvandale, Lorraine and Greenbushes have been identified as areas of concern. Bhanga said there were 12 patients admitted in private hospitals and six in public hospitals, with a total of three deaths recorded in the last two weeks. “There is a threat of a possible third wave and we need residents to work with all of us to avert  this from happening. “The numbers are going in the wrong direction. “We have learnt with concern that there were 13 new positive cases in the last 24 hours in our city. “The cases seem to fluctuate for now between eight and 30 cases daily, but the department of health tells us there is an increase in cases daily. “The private hospitals  reported during the meeting that they have noted an increase in hospital admissions too,” Bhanga said. Disaster management chair Shane Brown said law enforcement officers had noticed  residents walking around and gathered in groups without wearing masks. “We are really worried that people seem to have stopped wearing their masks. “Our law enforcement agencies will intensify law enforcement in this area. “We cannot afford to have a third wave. “That is why we are urging residents to remember that Covid-19 is not over. “More importantly, we are calling on all residents who are 60 years and above to register and have the vaccination. “Getting vaccinated is really the only way we can get some kind of normalcy back in our lives.” Residents who are 60  and older can register on the Covid-19 WhatsApp number by sending “REGISTER” to 0600123456. Residents can also register by SMS by dialling *134*832* If any issues arise  while registering,  the Covid-19 hotline is 0800-029-999. HeraldLIVE